- There are only **three basic** constructs in Prolog: facts, rules, and queries. A collection of facts and rules is called a ***knowledge base*** (or a database) and Prolog programming is all about writing knowledge bases. That is, Prolog programs simply are knowledge bases, collections of facts and rules which describe some collection of relationships that we find interesting.
- Facts, rules, and queries built out of terms. There are four kinds of term in Prolog: atoms, numbers, variables, and complex terms.
- Atoms
    - A string of characters made up of upper-case letters, lower-case letters, digits, and the underscore character, that begins with a lower-case letter. Here are some examples: butch , big_kahuna_burger , listens2Music and playsAirGuitar .
    - An arbitrary sequence of characters enclosed in single quotes. For example ’ Vincent ’, ’ The  Gimp ’, ’ Five_Dollar_Shake ’, ’ &^%&#@$  &* ’, and ’   ’. The sequence of characters between the single quotes is called the atom name. Note that we are allowed to use spaces in such atoms; in fact, a common reason for using single quotes is so we can do precisely that.
    - A string of special characters. Here are some examples: @= and ====> and ; and :- are all atoms. As we have seen, some of these atoms, such as ; and :- have a pre-defined meaning.
- Numbers
- Variables
    - A variable is a string of upper-case letters, lower-case letters, digits and underscore characters that starts either with an upper-case letter or with an underscore. For example, X , Y , Variable , _tag , X_526 , List , List24 , _head , Tail , _input and Output are all Prolog variables.
    - The variable _ (that is, a single underscore character) is rather special. It’s called the anonymous variable.
- Complex terms
    - Complex terms are build out of a functor followed by a sequence of arguments. The arguments are put in ordinary parentheses, separated by commas, and placed after the functor. Note that the functor has to be directly followed by the parenthesis; you can’t have a space between the functor and the parenthesis enclosing the arguments. The functor must be an atom. That is, variables cannot be used as functors. On the other hand, arguments can be any kind of term.
- `?- listing` display the contents of the current knowledge base
- `[kb2]` load kb2.pl file into knowledge base.
