## What is a pattern? 

- A patternfor software architecturedescribes a particular recurring de- sign problem that arises in specific design contexts, and presents a well-proven generic scheme for its solution. The solution scheme is specified by describing its constituent components, their responsibi- lities and relationships, and the ways in which they collaborate

Pattern characters
- A pattern addresses a recurring design problem that arises in specifi design situations, and presents a solution to it.
- Each pattern is a three-part rule, which expresses a relation between a certain context, a problem, and a solution.
- Patterns ident& and specla abstractions that are above the level of single classes and instances,or of components
- Patterns provide a common vocabulary and understandingfor design principles

## What makes a pattern


- Contexf:a situation giving rise to a problem.
- Problem: the recurring problem arising in that context.
- Solution: a proven resolution of the problem.

```
Pattern
| - Context
      | -- Design situation giving rise to a design problem
| - Problem
      | -- Set of forces repeatedly arising in the context Solution
| - Solution
       | -- Configuration to balance the forces
            | -- Structures with components and relationships
            | -- Run-time behaviour

```

## Relationships between patterns

1. Refinement

Each pattern depends on the smaller patterns it contains and on the larger patterns in which it is contained. 

MVC pattern use Observer pattern to notify model change which is a refinement.

2. Variants

Document-View is a variant of Model-View-Controller pattern. 

3. Combination

Some patterns combine to solve one problem. Each pattern solves an aspect/force of the problem. 


## Pattern Description 

- Good description help us to grasp its essence. 
- Good description provides all details neccessary to implement the pattern. 
- Good description describe patterns uniformly which help us to compare each other especially when we search for an alternative solution. 

## Pattern and Software Architecture


