- The selection of an architectural pattern, or a combination of several, is only the first step when designing the architecture of a software system


## From Mud to Structure

- High-level system subdivision: Layer, Pipe and Filter, Blackboard

## Layer

- The *Layers* architectural pattern helps to structure applications that can be decomposed into ***groups of subtasks*** in which each group of subtasks is at a particular **level of abstraction**. 

### Context

A large system that requires decomposition

### Problems

A mix of low-level and high-level issues

Forces

* Code change should be confined to one component and not affect others. 
* Part of system should be exchangable. 
* Similar responsibilities should be grouped to help understandability and maintainability. 
* Complex component need further decomposition
* The system will be built by a team of programmers. 
* Crossing component boundaries may impede performance. 

### Solution

Structure your system into an appropriate layers and place them on top of each other.   
Most of services of layer J provides are compose of services of layer J-1 provides. Layer J's service can dependent on other services on layer J. 

### Implementation

1. Define the abstraction criterion for grouping tasks into layers. This criterion is ofter the conceptual distance from platform. 
2. Determine the number of abstraction levels (trade-off). 
3. Name the layers and assign tasks to each of them. 
4. Specify the services. 
5. Refine the layering. Iterate over step 1-4
6. Specify interfaces for each layer. Blackbox: define a flat interface that offers all Layer J's service. 
7. Structure individual layers. 
8. Specify the communication merchanism between adjacent layers. (push, pull, callback)
9. Decouple adjacent layers. 
10. Designing an error-handling strategy.

Variants
- Relaxing layered system
- Layering through inheritence

### Consequences

* Benefits
    * Resue of layers (well-defined     abstraction and documentation)
    * Support for standardization. 
    * Dependencies are kept local. 
    * Exchangability. 
* Liability
    * Cascade of changing behavior. 
    * Lower effciency. 
    * Unnecessary work. 
    * Difficulty of establishing the correct granularity of layers. 

## Pipes and filters

The Pipes and Filters architectural pattern provides a structure for systems that process **a stream of data**. Each processing step is encapsulated in a filter component. Data is passed through pipes between adjacent filters. Recombining filters allows you to build families of related systems. 

### Context

Processing stream data

### Problem 

Process or transform a stream of input data

### Solution

Divide the task of a system into several sequential of processing steps which are connected by dataflow. 

```
             pipe          pipe
data source ------> filter -----> filter ... --> data sink
```

### Structure 

Filter components are the processing unit of the pipeline. A filter can do three things on data
- enrich data
- refine data
- transform data

Activity：
- push data
- pull data
- Producer-consumer model

### Implementation

1. Divide the system's task into a sequence of processing steps. 
2. Define the data format to be passed along the pipe. 
3. Decide how to implement each pipe connection. 
4. Design and implement filters. 
5. Design the error-handling. 
6. Setup the processing pipeline. 


## Blackboard


The Blackboard architectural pattern is useful for problems for which **no determlnlstic solution** strategies are known. In Blackboard several specialized subsystems assemble their knowledge to bulld a possibly partial or approximate solution.
