## Software Architecture

Aspects of Software Architecture
- [General](./General)
- [Component](./Component)
- [Relationship](./Relationship)
- [View](./View)
- [Functional Property](./FunctionalProperty)
- [Non-functional Property](./Non-functionalProperty)
- [Software Desing](./SoftwareDesign)


### General

What is Software Architecture?

---

A software architecture is a description of the subsystems and ***components*** of a software system and the ***relationships*** between them. 

Subsystems and components are typically specified in different ***views*** to show the relevant ***functional and non-functional properties*** of a software system. 

The software architecture of a system is an artifact. It is the result of the software design activity

---

### Component

---

A component is an encapsulated part of a software system. A component has an interface. Components serve as the building blocks for the structure of a system. At a programming-language level, components may be represented as services, modules, classes, objects or a set of related functions.

---
Each abstraction level has it own components definition. In service level, each service is a component which has different purpose such as gateway, business service, integration service etc. In application level, it components consists of controller, service, model, value object etc. 


### Relationship

---
A relationship denotes a ***connection*** between components. A relationship may be static or dynamic. Static relationships show directly in source code. They deal with the placement of components within an architecture. Dynamic relationships deal with temporal connections and dynamic Interaction between components. They may not be easily visible from the static structure of source code

---

Static relationship: aggreation, inheritance  
Dynamic relationship: Object creation, method invoketion, data transfer, object insert into a container(list, set, map etc)

### View

---
A view represents a partial aspect of a software architecture that shows specific properties of a software system.

---

One type of views to describe software architecture: 
- Conceptual architecture:components,connectors...
- Module architecture:subsystems, modules, exports, imports..,. 
- Code architecture: files, directories. libraries, includes... 
- Execution architecture:tasks, threads, processes...

Another: 
- Logical view: the design's object model, or a corresponding model such a s an entity relationship diagram.
- Process view: concurrency and synchronization aspects.
- Physical view: the mapping of the software onto the hardware and
its distributed aspects.
- Development view: the software's static organization in its development environment

### FunctionalProperty

---
A functional property deals with a particular aspect of a system's func- tionality, and is usually related to a specified functional requirement. A functional property may either be made directly visible to users of an application by means of a particular function, or it may represent aspects of its implementation, such as the algorithm used to compute the function.

---

Business Logic

### Non-functionProperty

---
A non-functional property denotes a feature of a system that is not covered,by its functional description. A non-functional property typically addresses aspects related to the reliability, compatibility, cost, ease of use, maintenance or development of a software system.

---

Non-functional properties:

- Changeability 
    - Maintainability
    - Externsability
    - Restructure
    - Portability
- Interoperability
- Effiency
- Reliability 
    - Fault tolerance
    - Robustnes
- Testability 
- Reusability

### SoftwareDesign

---
Software design is the activity performed by a software developer that results in the software architecture of a system. It is concerned with specifyfng the components of a software system and the relationships between them within given functional and non-functional properties

---

### Enabling Techniques

- Abstraction
- Encapsulation
- Information Hiding
- ModularizaUon
- Separation of Concerns
- Coupling and Cohesion
- Sufficiency, Completeness and - Primitiveness 
- Separation of Policy and merchanism 
    - [What is separation between policy and mechanism?](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/402583/what-is-separation-between-policy-and-mechanism)
    - A policy component deals with context-sensitive decisions.
    - An implementation component deals with the execution.
- Separation of Interface and Implementation 
- Single Point of Reference 
- Divide-and-Conquer

